REVISION: Quality control of microbiota metagenomics by k-mer analysis
--



- Major Compulsory Revisions 

1. I still worry that adapter contamination and low quality nts could be responsible for some of the patterns you observe here, especially when you are comparing your metagenomic samples to genomes. These genomes are (hopefully) free of adapter contamination. Further, the number of unique kmers generated by sequencing error will be much lower in the genomes relative to the metagenomes where you have not done any QC. I would have satisfied my own curiosity about this point, but given your data and code are still not available, I could not. Following this concerns is my concerns about low mapping rates from the 1st review. 


2. RPKM is very likely inappropriate for between-sample comparison specifically of the type you are doing here. See Robinson and Oshlack 2010 for those details. 

3. Which bacterial genome were used, NCBI numbers? How could I or readers replicate your work if this info is not provided?

4. How did you derive kmer counts from genomes (non CS data)? Your software apparently only handles color space data. 

5. The accession prjeb7925 is not registered with ENA. 


6. Page 8: Figure S1A does not detail the NSE, that is Figure S1B. In fact, the axes on S1a are hard to understand (maybe some rewording of axis labels might help).

7. You say that you compared the 28 genomes with the samples from the Yatsunenko study, but I don't see those data. If you want to claim that your method is platform independent, you should provide some supporting data.   




